
         Internet hosts span a wide range of size, speed, and function.
         They range in size from small microprocessors through
         workstations to mainframes and supercomputers.  In function,
         they range from single-purpose hosts (such as terminal servers)
         to full-service hosts that support a variety of online network
         services, typically including remote login, file transfer, and
         electronic mail.

         The current Internet architecture is based on a set of
         assumptions about the communication system.  The assumptions
         most relevant to hosts are as follows:

         (a)  The Internet is a network of networks.

              Each host is directly connected to some particular
              network(s); its connection to the Internet is only
              conceptual.  Two hosts on the same network communicate
              with each other using the same set of protocols that they
              would use to communicate with hosts on distant networks.

         (b)  Gateways don't keep connection state information.

              To improve robustness of the communication system,
              gateways are designed to be stateless, forwarding each IP
              datagram independently of other datagrams.  As a result,
              redundant paths can be exploited to provide robust service
              in spite of failures of intervening gateways and networks.

              All state information required for end-to-end flow control
              and reliability is implemented in the hosts, in the
              transport layer or in application programs.  All
              connection control information is thus co-located with the
              end points of the communication, so it will be lost only
              if an end point fails.

         (c)  Routing complexity should be in the gateways.

              Routing is a complex and difficult problem, and ought to
              be performed by the gateways, not the hosts.  An important


              objective is to insulate host software from changes caused
              by the inevitable evolution of the Internet routing
              architecture.

         (d)  The System must tolerate wide network variation.

              A basic objective of the Internet design is to tolerate a
              wide range of network characteristics -- e.g., bandwidth,
              delay, packet loss, packet reordering, and maximum packet
              size.  Another objective is robustness against failure of
              individual networks, gateways, and hosts, using whatever
              bandwidth is still available.  Finally, the goal is full
              "open system interconnection": an Internet host must be
              able to interoperate robustly and effectively with any
              other Internet host, across diverse Internet paths.

              Sometimes host implementors have designed for less
              ambitious goals.  For example, the LAN environment is
              typically much more benign than the Internet as a whole;
              LANs have low packet loss and delay and do not reorder
              packets.  Some vendors have fielded host implementations
              that are adequate for a simple LAN environment, but work
              badly for general interoperation.  The vendor justifies
              such a product as being economical within the restricted
              LAN market.  However, isolated LANs seldom stay isolated
              for long; they are soon gatewayed to each other, to
              organization-wide internets, and eventually to the global
              Internet system.  In the end, neither the customer nor the
              vendor is served by incomplete or substandard Internet
              host software.

              The requirements spelled out in this document are designed
              for a full-function Internet host, capable of full
              interoperation over an arbitrary Internet path.


